---
layout: article
author: Wanchi Kong
location: Sacramento, California
tags: family
full_width: false
---
What touched me the most about Nat and what captured my heart is his absolute love for the Lord and the ministry of this age. Our first date in a park was in 1994 right after the Chinese Speaking Conference where the high peak of the divine revelation was first released. While we were walking, he recited the 4 banners in Chinese. I was so impressed that his Chinese was not that good but he tried so hard to memorize it. That showed how much he loves and desires to be constituted with the ministry. 

One time we went to the beach and I asked if he could sing a love song to me. I was expecting some popular love song such as “Can’t help falling in love with you.” But he said “I don’t know any love song but I will sing this to you.” The song he sang was hymn 546 “I love the Lord but with no love of mine, for I have none to give.” Shortly after that, he asked me “should we get engaged first and get to know each other more or should we get to each other more and get engaged?” I thought to myself “Is that a proposal? Do I have a choice to say no?” He is absolute in his love for me also. Then you know the rest of the story.

In May 2000, the brothers shared about the renewed burden of migration to Eastern. Nat sensed that the Lord was calling him to move to Europe. He said he never had any thought or burden to move to Europe. But one time while he was praying for the Lord to send the workers to Eastern Europe, that verse came to him in Isaiah “Whom should I send? Who will go for me?”  and the Lord touched him “how about you?”. When he told me about his feeling to move to Europe, I was hesitant at first because I had a great job and I just gave birth to our second child. But he was absolute in following the Lord’s calling. So he told me that if it’s too hard for me to move, he will go first. I can come later if I want to. I know that nothing will deter his decision to move to Europe. So both of us dropped our jobs and took our two small children to move to Prague which we knew nothing about. I am so thankful that I followed Nat as he followed the Lord. The thirteen years we spent in Europe serving the Lord were the best years of my life.

I always feel that He is my rich Boaz kinsman-redeemer because I came from an unbelieving family and the Kong family has such rich spiritual inheritance. There is this song from the Bible Camp “Boaz was an extra-special person” that Nat loved. He would play guitar and sing this song again and again. The first stanza says “Boaz was an extra-special person, He was a close kinsman of Naomi. He was rich in wealth and full of abundance and was full of generosity. Though he lived during the time of Judges with its dark and evil history, he was one so pure in conduct and so high in his morality.” That is a true description of Nat. 

The first time I went to see my father-in-law after this happened, he said “when Nat was born, he hit the newspaper headline. When he died, he also hit the newspaper headline. He is very special.“ My father –in-law was right. I believe if there were newspaper during the time of the Lord Jesus, both his birth and death would hit the newspaper headline also. The first verse came to me after I heard the news was John 10: 11 when the Lord said” I am the good Shepherd; the good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep.”  Nat died of being a good shepherd as the Lord Jesus was. He is truly an extra-special person because he lived out the life of the most extraordinary person – the Lord Jesus. I am blessed and privileged to be such an extra-special person’s heir of the grace of life for 27 years. For this I am eternally grateful. Nat broke his alabaster flask of ointment and poured it upon the Lord as Mary did.  It is not a waste but a noble deed on the Lord and a fragrant testimony of His sweetness. May we also be those who love the Lord and waste ourselves upon the Lord as He is altogether lovely and worthy of such offering.
