---
layout: article
title: Brother Petr Novák
full_width: false
tags: saints
---

"I met Brother Nat for the first time in Brno, where the saints used to meet once a month. The saints came from Prague, Bratislava, and surrounding towns. I didn't like going there at first. My wife, who already went to these meetings, told me that after the meeting we would stop at a hypermarket… and I liked that, so I started going with her. But as time went on, these meetings brought life to me and I began to enjoy attending the meetings of the saints. In 2010, I was baptized by Brother Nat and that was a new beginning for me. Brother Nat had a burden for me in his heart, which is why he started to visit my family regularly, either with brothers or by himself. He would travel 200km from Bratislava by car or bus in all kinds of weather. Often there was snow and ice everywhere. At first I didn't really understand why Nat had so much burden in his heart for me, but praise the Lord that he was visiting and bringing me life, the life of Christ. Hallelujah! Then we began to meet with others who were interested at our house, at Sister Martha's and Sister Vera's houses in Letovice, and at the Reznik family’s house.

I remember that at the beginning of Brother Nat´s visits we all would throw our problems at him and he would always smile and say, “Oh Lord Jesus!”, take the hymnal and look for a song to sing with us. The problems diminished and we were able to enjoy Christ as life together. He also taught us how to pray-read the Word of God and enjoy the ministry of Watchman Nee and Witness Lee.

 Praise the Lord, in June 2012, the church was planted in Letovice and we were able to have our first Lord's Table. It was a great honor and still is a great feast. We think (and I write this for all the saints of Letovice) that if Nat had not started to visit me, there would not be the church in this town.

 We will remember Brother Nat as someone who brought the gospel to us. He was ready in season and out of season. He was a servant of Christ with much love for the Church. We are very sorry to see him go, but our Lord knows and took him to Himself.

We bless his entire family and we are grateful that we were able to know them as well. Praise the Lord Jesus Christ, He is Victor!

With the love of Christ on behalf of the saints from Letovice, "
