---
layout: article
author: Dan Kong
location: Sacramento, California
tags: family
full_width: false
---
We grew up in a home where Christ, and by extension His Body, the church, was central. However, I noticed that the Lord started to do a deeper work in Nat during the mid 70s when he was around 13 or 14 years old. At that time, the church here would gather with other churches in the Bay area, in Berkeley, every Friday evening, for what we call the ministry station. There we had the respeaking of the life-study of Genesis, that was being released to His body at that time. Nat was deeply touched by all the sharing, dove into the rich ministry flowing out, and that has governed the course of his life ever since.

With the change in the world situation, and the opening up of Eastern Europe to the gospel, in 2000, Nat and his family jumped at the opportunity to go. Leaving their jobs, Nat & Wanchi gave their next 13 years to serve the Lord there. In typical Kong fashion, Nat endeavored to be as self-supporting as possible, desiring not to place any burden on the church. He has faithfully maintained that practice from that time, all the way to the present time.

Nat’s heart has been & continues to be with the saints in Eastern Europe. Despite, the need to return to this country for the children’s college education, I have heard him, on numerous occasions, express his desire to return there to serve more, once the children’s education was taken care of.

Nat’s heart was for the spread of the Lord’s testimony on this earth and the building up of His body, to prepare the way for His soon return.
