---
layout: article
author: Leo and Eva Grman
location: Bratislava, Slovakia
tags: saints
full_width: false
---
While we were considering our Brother Nat, one word comes up in our being. This word is absoluteness. Serving with him for seven years, we found him to be absolute in many respects. He was absolute in his pursuing of the Lord and loving the church to the uttermost. We could see this when he came to serve in Europe with his wife and two very small children. It was a testimony to us that he did not waste time in serving the Lord.
He considered the time that we gathered together for coordination to be something very precious. Frequently, after exhausting gospel trips (which we did regularly in the Czech and Slovak republics) we hoped we would have an extra day off. But brother Nat did not see it that way. On the contrary, we would meet for coordination according to  our regular schedule.
 During our time together with other coworkers he was constantly asking us how the particular saints were doing, and why certain ones did not come to the meeting. These questions were often  annoying to us. Only later did we realize that the saints and the condition of the saints were on his heart. When we were visiting the brothers and sisters across the republic he was always traveling with us, and was one with us in taking care of them. He just loved the saints.
We admired his faithfulness when he traveled to a small Czech town Letovice every Friday afternoon to meet a few saints. He went there no matter what the season and what the weather was like.
He was not a brother with many talents, but in the church meetings he was very zealous in his spirit. He was shining Christ and diligently speaking God's word to the saints. Moreover, his singing to the Lord is unforgettable. It was always sweet. Last but not least he loved the ministry of this age. Brother Nat was constituted with this ministry, one with the Word, and faithfully distributing it to all people.
Lord, we thank you that we were able to know brother Nat in the person of Christ and be a small part of his life on earth. May our mutual experiences remain for an eternity.
He considered the time that we gathered together for coordination to be something very precious. Frequently, after exhausting gospel trips (which we did regularly in the Czech and Slovak republics) we hoped we would have an extra day off. But brother Nat did not see it that way. On the contrary, we would meet for coordination according to  our regular schedule.
 During our time together with other coworkers he was constantly asking us how the particular saints were doing, and why certain ones did not come to the meeting. These questions were often  annoying to us. Only later did we realize that the saints and the condition of the saints were on his heart. When we were visiting the brothers and sisters across the republic he was all the time traveling with us, and was one with us in taking care of them. He just loved the saints.
We admired his faithfulness when he traveled to a small Czech town Letovice every Friday afternoon to meet a few saints. He went there no matter what the season and what the weather was like.
He was not a brother with many talents. But in the church meetings he was very zealous in his spirit. He was shining Christ and diligently speaking God's word to the saints. Moreover, his singing to the Lord is unforgettable. It was always sweet. Last but not least he loved the ministry of this age. Brother Nat was constituted with this ministry, one with the Word, and faithfully distributing it to all people.
Lord, we thank you that we were able to know brother Nat in the person of Christ and be a small part of his life on earth. May our mutual experiences remain for an eternity.
 The time of our coordination was something very precious to him. After exhausting gospel trips (which we went on often within the Czech and Slovak republics), we usually hoped to have an extra day off. However, brother Nat did not see it that way. On the contrary, we continued to have coordination on a regular basis.
 During our time together with other coworkers, he constantly asked us how particular saints are doing and why certain ones were not coming to the meetings. Often, these questions were annoying to us. It was later that we realized that the saints and the condition of the saints were on his heart. When we were visiting saints across the republic, he was always traveling with us and was one with us in taking care of the saints. He just loved the saints.
We admired his faithfulness when he traveled to a small Czech town, Letovice, every Friday afternoon to meet a few saints. He went there no matter the season or what the weather was like.
He was not a brother with many talents, but in the church meetings, he was very zealous in his spirit. He shined Christ and diligently spoke God's word to the saints. Moreover, his singing to the Lord is unforgettable. It was always sweet. Last but not least, he loved the ministry of this age. Brother Nat was constituted with this ministry, was one with the Word, and faithfully distributed it to all people.
Lord, we thank You that we were able to know brother Nat in the person of Christ and we were able to be a small part of his life on earth. May our mutual experiences remain for an eternity.
