---
layout: article
author: Jana Štefuriková
location: Bratislava, Slovakia
tags: saints
---

"The Lord desires that our earthen vessels be emptied, so that He can fill them with Himself for His purpose. That is why we hear such encouragement that the Lord wants to transform us from “hero to zero”. It sounds better in English… “From hero to zero”. It amuses us… However, the practical denial of ourselves, our natural life — including what we own in any form to make us proud “heroes” is not always easy and enjoyable. Nevertheless, we pay the price according to our capabilities and circumstances, to be emptied of ourselves so that we can gain Christ, to express Christ, to be built into Christ in the local churches all over the world into one corporate vessel.

This was also the way of our Brother Nat, who lived a family life, Christian life, and church life among us to gain Christ. We saw it. We experienced it with him. We helped each other go from “hero” to “zero”, whether the “hero” was visible to us more or less on the outside. We longed for “zero”.

Today, however, I would like to apply the word ‘hero’ to Brother Nat in a different, positive sense. He was not afraid to follow the Lord, even from his youth. He bravely set out to follow Him with his wife and small children in service in Europe. He also served diligently and persevered daily where he had just been living. He paid the price until the end. And on his way, like some heroes, he lost the most valuable…
Today, however, I would like to apply the word ‘hero’ to Brother Nat in a different, positive sense. He was not afraid to follow the Lord, even from his youth. He bravely set out to follow Him with his wife and small children in service in Europe. He also served diligently and persevered daily where he had just been living. He paid the price until the end. And on his way, like some heroes, he lost the most valuable…

Thank you for your testimony, Brother Nat."
