---
layout: article
author: Amarisa
location: 
tags: saints
full_width: false
---
Brother Nat was a mentor, spiritual father and friend to me. From when I first entered church life he demonstrated what a God man truly is. Much of the Christ that I have he dispensed into me through his messages, practical examples, sweet singing, his kindness to my family and I, and his constant encouragement. My favorite memories will always be the college meeting messages that made me realize my true purpose by simply showing me a glove. Even after being a Christian for so many years, I had my life turned upside down from the things he would share about Christ that would cause me to have tears of joy. I realized that like many of the saints when he was speaking the Lord was speaking. Whenever he helped make a way for others the Lord was making a way for them. 

I especially loved his distinction of human history and divine history as he encouraged us that we want our life to be part of the divine history. I think of Enoch from the Bible who called upon the name of the Lord though not mentioned in depth but described as one who walked with God and was added into the divine history. How wonderful it is to be known for walking with God as our dear brother Nat. 

Some time ago I had decided that I wanted to be baptized a second time and Brother Nat had been one of the brothers to baptize me into the Triune God. It made it an even more special moment and one I will always remember. He taught me so many simple ways to spread life into  others and these are the methods I will continue to use to advance the gospel. I am one of the many fruits of the tender care of this saint. And I will continue to fight the good fight and cannot wait until the day we all arrive at the oneness. Thank you Lord for placing this brother in my life.
