---
layout: article
author: Endy Štefurik
location: Bratislava, Slovakia
tags: saints
full_width: false
---

"What I remember very clearly when I was thinking about my first meeting with Nat was his smile :) It was also his joy to meet me, a new brother in the Lord. I met him with such sincere joy throughout his entire service in Slovakia. Whenever he met new believers or complete strangers, he always had an open heart to serve them, to take care of them, to help them, and to devote time to them…

He was also a pattern for me in his approach to the truth, to the word of God. I always saw him take the word for himself, take the word as his source, and consequently, what he spoke, portrayed His love for the Lord and the saints. Whether he spoke in meetings or with someone individually, his words brought grace to the listeners.

We often were on the streets among the people talking about the Lord, handing out books, and sharing the gospel. I specifically remember one case when we were in Brno handing out books for free. Nat tried to find the best place to set up our table where we could spread out our books. He moved this table from place to place, over and over again. I said to myself, “Does it matter where we put the table? There are people everywhere.” Nevertheless, I followed him and did not express my opinion. On that day, we distributed the most books and leaflets from the entire distribution. This was one of the many situations in which the Lord caused growth in me through Brother Nat. There were many such situations during our joint activities in Slovakia. Everything was for encouragement, the building and the pleasure. Our brother lived and gave his life for Christ and the church.

Thank you, Lord Jesus, for the privilege of knowing this humble servant of Yours and his family. Thank you for this example, a pattern of faith and love that is worth following. I pray that his service in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and the United States will continue to bring multiple fruit.
"
