---
layout: article
author: DW
location: Davis, California
tags: saints
full_width: false
---
Nat is my brother, my co-worker and my friend. I have known Nat and his family for almost 46 years. When my wife and I migrated to Sacramento in 1976 with our daughter Kelly, Nat was only about 13 years old, a Jr. higher, the youngest child  of Jonathan and Joan Kong.  

When I first met Nat, I was amazed that such a young brother knew the Bible so well and could speak the ministry so clearly. It seemed that he was in every meeting that I was in, and often functioned better than I could.

Nat went on to complete his education with a masters degree in Mechanical engineering. Nat was among the first to attend the fulltime training in Taiwan, and several years later, followed the Lord’s calling to serve Him fulltime in Europe.

When Nat and his family went to Europe, for years we would read his emails in the prayer meetings to stand with them in prayer. Sometimes I would ask myself, “where is the fruit?” or “What is the result of their labor”? But Nat and Wanchi were living a steady, normal, fruitbearing life—like Boaz and Ruth. Eventually, of course, the fruit did come, and now through his and the labor of many others, there are golden lampstands in central Europe where there were none. 

A few years after Nat returned from Europe, there was a need for strengthening the campus team in Sacramento. Nat was the obvious choice to serve with the team as one who had a vision of God’s economy; was mature in the Lord, who knew how to coordinate with others and had a shepherding heart for both young people and college students. In spite of his deep commitment to the children’s work, Nat was willing to stretch his capacity and oversee the Sacramento campus team as a player-coach. The campus work in Sacramento has flourished under his labor and care.  

I will always remember Nat’s love for the Lord, the Bible, the ministry, the saints in the church and all the new ones he cared for, both young and old.  As most of you already know, Nat’s heart was very large, and he was always willing to go the extra mile to care for anyone who had a need. I will truly miss my brother’s rich portion of Christ, his service in the Body and his shepherding heart.
