---
layout: article
show_title: true
tags:
- General
- containers
- tutorial
title: "Docker: tutorial"
---

Hey! This time I'm doing a Docker guide. As always, I don't extend in my introductions, so let's go onto the topic.

### What is Docker?
Docker is a technology that build, serve and deploy containers. You can think of Docker as a boss, that boss distributes the employers, and send employers to other sites to do what they have to do. The employers are the containers, ofc.

Containers have large list of advantages, some that come out to my mind are:

- Isolation
- Interoperability
- Ease of deployment
- Ease of serve
- Modular
- Extensible (to infinity)
- Exportable

In fact, you can use and deploy all your applications in your local system as services. Docker is all about services and containers. 

The only requisites I would say to be important, are:

- **Good Storage capacity:** This allows you to store more images in order to run them in containers.
- **Good Internet connection:** This allows you to quickly pull images from the Docker service, run them in your operating system, and remove images.

### Docker 

1. [**Install Docker:**](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
2. **Pull Images:**

    `docker pull mysql`

3. **Run Images in Containers:**

    `docker run mysql` + optional parameters for the first run

4. **Stop/Start Containers as services:**

    `docker start <name>`
    `docker stop <name>`

    with "\<name\>" being the name automatically given to your container.

5. Keep them synced with in your `DockerHub` account, exploy others containers, deploy them in your machine, build your custom container from others ones, etc.

And that's all. You only need to remember a piece. Possibilities are endless.

Best of luck!


